catboost/docs/en/_includes/work_src/reusage/calc-model__options.md, before:

### -m, --model-file,--model-path

#### Description

The name of the input file with the description of the model obtained as the result of training.

**{{ cli__params-table__title__default }}**

{{ calc--model-path }}

### --model-format

#### Description

The format of the input model.

Possible values:
- {{ fit__model-format_CatboostBinary }}.{{ fit__model-format_applecoreml }}(only datasets without categorical features are currently supported).{{ fit__model-format_json }} (multiclassification models are not currently supported). Refer to the [CatBoost JSON model tutorial]({{ catboost-repo__json-tutorial }}) for format details.

**{{ cli__params-table__title__default }}**

{{ fit__model-format }}


### --input-path

#### Description

The name of the input file with the [dataset description](../../../concepts/input-data_values-file.md).

**{{ cli__params-table__title__default }}**

{{ calc--input-path }}


### --column-description, --cd

#### Description

The path to the input file {% if audience == "internal" %}or table{% endif %} that contains the [columns description](../../../concepts/input-data_column-descfile.md).

{% if audience == "internal" %}

{% include [internal__cd-internal-cd-desc](../../../yandex_specific/_includes/reusage-formats/internal-cd-desc.md) %}

{% endif %}


**{{ cli__params-table__title__default }}**

{{ column-desc__default }}


### --input-pairs

#### Description

The path to the input file that contains the pairs description for the dataset.

This information is used for the calculation of Pairwise metrics.

**{{ cli__params-table__title__default }}**

Omitted

Pairwise metrics require pairs of data. If this data is not provided explicitly by specifying this parameter, pairs are generated automatically in each group using object label values

### -o, --output-path

#### Description

Defines the output settings for the resulting values of the model.

Supported value formats and types:
- `stream://<stream>` — Output the results to one of the program's standard output streams.

    `stream` is the name of the output stream. Possible values: `stdout` or `stderr`.

    For example, set the following value to output the results of applying the model to `stdout`:
    ```
    -o stream://stdout
    ```

- `[<path>/]<filename>.tsv` — Write the results into the specified file.
    - `path` is the optional path to the directory, where the resulting file should be saved to. By default, the file is saved to the same directory, from which the application is launched.
    - `filename` is the name of the output file.

    For example, set the following value to output the results of applying the model to the `/home/model/output-results.tsv` file:
    ```
    -o /home/model/output-results.tsv
    ```
The output data [format](../../../concepts/output-data_model-value-output.md) depends on the machine learning task being solved.

**{{ cli__params-table__title__default }}**

{{ calc--output-path }}

### --output-columns

#### Description

A comma-separated list of columns names to output when forming the [results of applying the model](../../../concepts/output-data_model-value-output.md) (including the ones obtained for the validation dataset when training).

Prediction and feature values can be output for each object of the input dataset. Auxiliary column can be output, if name for column was specified in column description. Additionally, some [column types](../../../concepts/input-data_column-descfile.md) can be output if specified in the input data.

{% cut "Supported prediction types" %}

- {{ prediction-type--Probability }}
- {{ prediction-type--Class }}
- {{ prediction-type--RawFormulaVal }}
- {{ prediction-type--Exponent }}
- {{ prediction-type--LogProbability }}

{% endcut %}

{% cut "Supported column types" %}

- `{{ cd-file__col-type__label }}`
- `{{ cd-file__col-type__Baseline }}`
- `{{ cd-file__col-type__Weight }}`
- `{{ cd-file__col-type__SampleId }}` (`{{ cd-file__col-type__DocId }}`)
- `{{ cd-file__col-type__GroupId }}` (`{{ cd-file__col-type__QueryId }}`)
- `{{ cd-file__col-type__QueryId }}`
- `{{ cd-file__col-type__SubgroupId }}`
- `{{ cd-file__col-type__Timestamp }}`
- `{{ cd-file__col-type__GroupWeight }}`

{% endcut %}

The output columns can be set in any order. Format:

```
<prediction type 1>,[<prediction type 2> .. <prediction type N>][columns to output],[#<feature index 1>[:<name to output (user-defined)>] .. #<feature index N>[:<column name to output>]]
```

**Example**

```
--output-columns Probability,#3,#4:Feature4,Label,SampleId
```

In this example, features with indices 3 and 4 are output. The header contains the index (<q>#3</q>) for the feature indexed 3 and the string <q>Feature4</q> for the feature indexed 4.

{% cut "A fragment of the output" %}

```
Probability	#3	Feature4	Label	SampleId
0.4984999565	1	50.7799987793	0	0
0.8543220144	1	48.6333312988	2	1
0.7358535042	1	52.5699996948	1	2
0.8788711681	1	48.1699981689	2	3
```

{% endcut %}

{% note info %}

At least one of the specified columns must contain prediction values. For example, the following value raises an error:
```
--output-columns SampleId
```

{% endnote %}


**{{ cli__params-table__title__default }}**

All columns that are supposed to be output according to the chosen parameters are output

### -T, --thread-count

#### Description

{% include [reusage-thread-count-short-desc](thread-count-short-desc.md) %}

{% include [reusage-thread_count__cpu_cores__optimizes-the-speed-of-execution](thread_count__cpu_cores__optimizes-the-speed-of-execution.md) %}


**{{ cli__params-table__title__default }}**

{{ fit--thread_count }}


### --tree-count-limit

#### Description

The number of trees from the model to use when applying. If specified, the first <value> trees are used.

**{{ cli__params-table__title__default }}**

{{ calc--tree-count-limit }}


### --eval-period

#### Description

To reduce the number of trees to use when the model is applied or the metrics are calculated, set the step of the trees to use to `eval-period`.


{% include [eval-start-end-cli__eval__period__desc](../reusage-common-phrases/cli__eval__period__desc.md) %}


**{{ cli__params-table__title__default }}**

0 (the staged prediction mode is turned off)


### --prediction-type

#### Description

A comma-separated list of prediction types.

Supported prediction types:
- {{ prediction-type--Probability }}
- {{ prediction-type--Class }}
- {{ prediction-type--RawFormulaVal }}
- {{ prediction-type--Exponent }}
- {{ prediction-type--LogProbability }}


**{{ cli__params-table__title__default }}**

{{ prediction-type--RawFormulaVal }}

Commit message:

graph features doc 87c78613e0dc9dc73b76d3397e1cb4ce207161dc

catboost/docs/en/_includes/work_src/reusage/calc-model__options.md, after:

### -m, --model-file,--model-path

#### Description

The name of the input file with the description of the model obtained as the result of training.

**{{ cli__params-table__title__default }}**

{{ calc--model-path }}

### --model-format

#### Description

The format of the input model.

Possible values:
- {{ fit__model-format_CatboostBinary }}.{{ fit__model-format_applecoreml }}(only datasets without categorical features are currently supported).{{ fit__model-format_json }} (multiclassification models are not currently supported). Refer to the [CatBoost JSON model tutorial]({{ catboost-repo__json-tutorial }}) for format details.

**{{ cli__params-table__title__default }}**

{{ fit__model-format }}


### --input-path

#### Description

The name of the input file with the [dataset description](../../../concepts/input-data_values-file.md).

**{{ cli__params-table__title__default }}**

{{ calc--input-path }}


### --column-description, --cd

#### Description

The path to the input file {% if audience == "internal" %}or table{% endif %} that contains the [columns description](../../../concepts/input-data_column-descfile.md).

{% if audience == "internal" %}

{% include [internal__cd-internal-cd-desc](../../../yandex_specific/_includes/reusage-formats/internal-cd-desc.md) %}

{% endif %}


**{{ cli__params-table__title__default }}**

{{ column-desc__default }}


### --input-pairs

#### Description

The path to the input file that contains the pairs description for the dataset.

This information is used for the calculation of Pairwise metrics.

**{{ cli__params-table__title__default }}**

Omitted

Pairwise metrics require pairs of data. If this data is not provided explicitly by specifying this parameter, pairs are generated automatically in each group using object label values


### --input-graph

#### Description

The path to the input file that contains the [graph information](../../../concepts/input-data_graph-description.md) for the dataset.

This information is used for calculation of [](../../../features/graph-aggregated-features.md).


**{{ cli__params-table__title__default }}**

Omitted


### -o, --output-path

#### Description

Defines the output settings for the resulting values of the model.

Supported value formats and types:
- `stream://<stream>` — Output the results to one of the program's standard output streams.

    `stream` is the name of the output stream. Possible values: `stdout` or `stderr`.

    For example, set the following value to output the results of applying the model to `stdout`:
    ```
    -o stream://stdout
    ```

- `[<path>/]<filename>.tsv` — Write the results into the specified file.
    - `path` is the optional path to the directory, where the resulting file should be saved to. By default, the file is saved to the same directory, from which the application is launched.
    - `filename` is the name of the output file.

    For example, set the following value to output the results of applying the model to the `/home/model/output-results.tsv` file:
    ```
    -o /home/model/output-results.tsv
    ```
The output data [format](../../../concepts/output-data_model-value-output.md) depends on the machine learning task being solved.

**{{ cli__params-table__title__default }}**

{{ calc--output-path }}

### --output-columns

#### Description

A comma-separated list of columns names to output when forming the [results of applying the model](../../../concepts/output-data_model-value-output.md) (including the ones obtained for the validation dataset when training).

Prediction and feature values can be output for each object of the input dataset. Auxiliary column can be output, if name for column was specified in column description. Additionally, some [column types](../../../concepts/input-data_column-descfile.md) can be output if specified in the input data.

{% cut "Supported prediction types" %}

- {{ prediction-type--Probability }}
- {{ prediction-type--Class }}
- {{ prediction-type--RawFormulaVal }}
- {{ prediction-type--Exponent }}
- {{ prediction-type--LogProbability }}

{% endcut %}

{% cut "Supported column types" %}

- `{{ cd-file__col-type__label }}`
- `{{ cd-file__col-type__Baseline }}`
- `{{ cd-file__col-type__Weight }}`
- `{{ cd-file__col-type__SampleId }}` (`{{ cd-file__col-type__DocId }}`)
- `{{ cd-file__col-type__GroupId }}` (`{{ cd-file__col-type__QueryId }}`)
- `{{ cd-file__col-type__QueryId }}`
- `{{ cd-file__col-type__SubgroupId }}`
- `{{ cd-file__col-type__Timestamp }}`
- `{{ cd-file__col-type__GroupWeight }}`

{% endcut %}

The output columns can be set in any order. Format:

```
<prediction type 1>,[<prediction type 2> .. <prediction type N>][columns to output],[#<feature index 1>[:<name to output (user-defined)>] .. #<feature index N>[:<column name to output>]]
```

**Example**

```
--output-columns Probability,#3,#4:Feature4,Label,SampleId
```

In this example, features with indices 3 and 4 are output. The header contains the index (<q>#3</q>) for the feature indexed 3 and the string <q>Feature4</q> for the feature indexed 4.

{% cut "A fragment of the output" %}

```
Probability	#3	Feature4	Label	SampleId
0.4984999565	1	50.7799987793	0	0
0.8543220144	1	48.6333312988	2	1
0.7358535042	1	52.5699996948	1	2
0.8788711681	1	48.1699981689	2	3
```

{% endcut %}

{% note info %}

At least one of the specified columns must contain prediction values. For example, the following value raises an error:
```
--output-columns SampleId
```

{% endnote %}


**{{ cli__params-table__title__default }}**

All columns that are supposed to be output according to the chosen parameters are output

### -T, --thread-count

#### Description

{% include [reusage-thread-count-short-desc](thread-count-short-desc.md) %}

{% include [reusage-thread_count__cpu_cores__optimizes-the-speed-of-execution](thread_count__cpu_cores__optimizes-the-speed-of-execution.md) %}


**{{ cli__params-table__title__default }}**

{{ fit--thread_count }}


### --tree-count-limit

#### Description

The number of trees from the model to use when applying. If specified, the first <value> trees are used.

**{{ cli__params-table__title__default }}**

{{ calc--tree-count-limit }}


### --eval-period

#### Description

To reduce the number of trees to use when the model is applied or the metrics are calculated, set the step of the trees to use to `eval-period`.


{% include [eval-start-end-cli__eval__period__desc](../reusage-common-phrases/cli__eval__period__desc.md) %}


**{{ cli__params-table__title__default }}**

0 (the staged prediction mode is turned off)


### --prediction-type

#### Description

A comma-separated list of prediction types.

Supported prediction types:
- {{ prediction-type--Probability }}
- {{ prediction-type--Class }}
- {{ prediction-type--RawFormulaVal }}
- {{ prediction-type--Exponent }}
- {{ prediction-type--LogProbability }}


**{{ cli__params-table__title__default }}**

{{ prediction-type--RawFormulaVal }}
